What is the syntax to disable or enable all triggers of a table?
sql Interview questions
ALTER TABLE table_name { ENABLE | DISABLE } ALL TRIGGERS;

What is locks?
sql Interview questions
Locks are mechanisms that prevent destructive interaction between transactions accessing the same resource.

What is Data concurrency and Data consistency?
sql Interview questions
Data concurrency means that many users can access data at the same time.

Data consistency means that each user sees a consistent view of the data, including visible changes made by the user's own transactions and transactions of other users.

How to provide all privileges to user?
sql Interview questions
grant all privilege to user_name;

What is Fourth Normal Form (4NF)?
sql Interview questions
Finally, fourth normal form (4NF) has one additional requirement:

* Meet all the requirements of the third normal form.

* A relation is in 4NF if it has no multi-valued dependencies

sql
What is SET Operators?
sql Interview questions
The SET operators combine the results of two or more component queries into one result. Queries containing SET operators are called compound queries.

UNION All distinct rows selected by either query
UNION ALL All rows selected by either query, including all duplicates
INTERSECT All distinct rows selected by both queries
MINUS All distinct rows that are selected by the first SELECT statement and not selected in the second SELECT statement

What is a Database Link?
sql Interview questions
A database link is a pointer that defines a one-way communication path from an Oracle database server to another database server. The link pointer is actually defined as an entry in a data dictionary table. To access the link, you must be connected to the local database that contains the data dictionary entry.

What is Object Privileges?
sql Interview questions
An object privilege is a privilege or right to perform a particular action on a specific table, view, sequence, or procedure.

What is a Role?
sql Interview questions
A role is a named group of related privileges that can be granted to the user. This method makes it easier to revoke and maintain privileges.

What is a schema?
sql Interview questions
A schema is a collection of objects, such as tables, views, and sequences. The schema is owned by a database user and has the same name as that user

When should we have to go for an Index?
sql Interview questions
You should create an index if:
• A column contains a wide range of values
• A column contains a large number of null values
• One or more columns are frequently used together in a WHERE clause or a join condition
• The table is large and most queries are expected to retrieve less than 2 to 4 percent of the rows

What is an Index?
sql Interview questions
An index:
• Is a schema object
• Is used by the Oracle server to speed up the retrieval of rows by using a pointer.
• Can reduce disk I/O by using a rapid path access method to locate data quickly
• Is independent of the table it indexes.
• Is used and maintained automatically by the Oracle server

What Is a Sequence?
sql Interview questions
A sequence is a user created database object that can be shared by multiple users to generate unique integers.

Write a query to display employees getting top 3 salaries?
sql Interview questions
SELECT *
FROM (SELECT salary,first_name FROM employees
ORDER BY salary desc)
WHERE rownum <= 3;

What is an inline view?
sql Interview questions
An inline view is a subquery with an alias (or correlation name) that you can use within a SQL statement. A named subquery in the FROM clause of the main query is an example of an inline view.

What is Data Dictionary?
sql Interview questions
•    Is a collection of tables created and maintained by the Oracle server
•    Contain database information

What Are Locks?
sql Interview questions
Locks are mechanisms that prevent destructive interaction between transactions accessing the same resource, either a user object (such as tables or rows) or a system object not visible to users (such as shared data structures and data dictionary rows).


What is the Advantages of COMMIT and ROLLBACK Statements?
sql Interview questions
With COMMIT and ROLLBACK statements, you can:
• Ensure data consistency
• Preview data changes before making changes permanent
• Group logically related operations

What is the use of the MERGE Statement?
sql Interview questions
Provides the ability to conditionally update or insert data into a database table

What is the use of WITH CHECK OPTION Keyword?
sql Interview questions
Specify WITH CHECK OPTION to indicate that, if the subquery is used in place of a table in an
INSERT, UPDATE, or DELETE statement, no changes that would produce rows that are not included in the subquery are permitted to that table.
What is subquery?
sql Interview questions
A subquery is a SELECT statement that is embedded in a clause of another SELECT statement.

Example

SELECT first_name, last_name, salary
FROM employees
WHERE salary >= (SELECT salary
FROM employees
WHERE first_name = 'Hermann');
Displays list of employees name and salary whose salary is greater than ‘Hermann'

Write a Query to display the department numbers and average salaries for those departments whose maximum salary is greater than $10,000?
sql Interview questions
SELECT   department_id, AVG (salary)
FROM employees
GROUP BY department_id
HAVING MAX (salary) > 10000;

What Is the Use Of the GROUP BY Clause?
sql Interview questions
You can use the GROUP BY clause to divide the rows in a table into groups. You can then use the group functions to return summary information for each group.

What Are Group Functions?
sql Interview questions
Group functions operate on sets of rows to give one result per group. All group functions ignore null values in the column.

What is the use of USING Clause in Joins?
sql Interview questions
If several columns have the same names but the data types do not match, the NATURAL JOIN clause can be modified with the USING clause to specify the columns that should be used for an equijoin

What is the use of COALESCE function?
sql Interview questions
Returns the first non-null expression in the expression list.

What is DUAL table?
sql Interview questions
DUAL is a dummy table you can use to view results from functions and calculations

What is the purpose of INSTR function?
sql Interview questions
Returns the numeric position of a named string. Optionally, you can provide a position m to start searching, and the occurrence n of the string. m and n default to 1, meaning start the search at the beginning of the search and report the first occurrence.

What are different types of functions?
sql Interview questions
There are two distinct types of functions:
• Single-row functions
• Multiple-row functions
Single-Row Functions
These functions operate on single rows only and return one result per row. ex
• Character
• Number
• Date
• Conversion
Multiple-Row Functions
Functions can manipulate groups of rows to give one result per group of rows. These functions are known as group functions.

Diff between SQL Statements Versus iSQL*Plus Commands
sql Interview questions
SQL 
Is a language for communicating with the Oracle server to access data
Is based on American National Standards Institute (ANSI) standard SQL
Manipulates data and table definitions in the database
Does not have a continuation character 
Cannot be abbreviated 
Uses functions to perform some formatting 

iSQL*Plus
Recognizes SQL statements and sends them to the Server
Is the Oracle proprietary interface for executing SQL statements
Does not allow manipulation of values in the Database
Has a dash (-) as a continuation character if the command is longer than one line
Can be abbreviated
Uses commands to format data

What are the Guidelines for Primary Keys and Foreign Keys?
sql Interview questions
• You cannot use duplicate values in a primary key.
• Primary keys generally cannot be changed.
• Foreign keys are based on data values and are purely logical, not physical, pointers.
• A foreign key value must match an existing primary key value or unique key value, or else be null.
• A foreign key must reference either a primary key or unique key column.

What are Components of the Relational Model?
sql Interview questions
A relational database uses relations or two-dimensional tables to store information.
• Collections of objects or relations that store the data
• A set of operators that can act on the relations to produce other relations
• Data integrity for accuracy and consistency
Relational databases are composed of relations, managed by relational operations, and governed by data integrity constraints.

What is database?
sql Interview questions
A database is an organized collection of information.
To manage databases, you need database management systems (DBMS). A DBMS is a program that stores, retrieves, and modifies data in the database on request. There are four main types of databases:
Hierarchical, network, relational, and more recently object relational

What are the Benefits for Oracle 9i?
sql Interview questions
• Scalability from departments to enterprise e-business sites
• Robust, reliable, available, secure architecture
• One development model, easy deployment options
• Leverage an organization’s current skillset throughout the Oracle platform (including SQL,
PL/SQL, Java, and XML)
• One management interface for all applications
• Industry standard technologies, no proprietary lock-in

How to display current system time in SQL?
sql Interview questions
Using sysdate and current_timestamp funtions
select current_timestamp from dual;
select sysdate from dual;

sql
What are different Oracle database objects?
sql Interview questions
TABLES
VIEWS,
INDEXES,
SYNONYMS,
SEQUENCES,
TIGGERS,
PACKAGES,
PROCEDURE,
FUNCTION,

How you will avoid your query from using indexes?
sql Interview questions
SELECT /*FULL*/ *
FROM employees;

What is OCI? What are its uses?
sql Interview questions
Oracle Call Interface is a method of accessing database from a 3GL program. It will not use precompiler, PL/SQL blocks are executed like other DML statements. The OCI library provides
--functions to parse SQL statements
--bind input variables
--bind output variables
--execute statements
--fetch the results

What are different sql pseudocolumns?
sql Interview questions
PL/SQL recognizes following SQL pseudocolumns: CURRVAL, LEVEL, NEXTVAL, ROWID, and 
ROWNUM.

What are various constraints used in SQL?
sql Interview questions
-NULL
-NOT NULL
-CHECK
-DEFAULT
- PRIMARY & FOREIGN KEY
- NOT NULL
- CHECK
- UNIQUE
- DEFAULT

What is privilege?
sql Interview questions
A privilege is a right to execute an SQL statement or to access another user's object. In Oracle, there are two types of privileges: system privileges and object privileges. A privileges can be assigned to a user or a role

What is difference between UNIQUE and PRIMARY KEY constraints?
sql Interview questions
Primary key and unique are Entity integrity constraints
Primary key allows each row in a table to be uniquely identified and ensures that no duplicate rows exist and no null values are entered.
Unique key constraint is used to prevent the duplication of key values within the rows of a table and allow null values. (one null is not equal to another null in oracle).

Can a primary key contain more than one column?
sql Interview questions
Yes.

Differentiate between TRUNCATE and DELETE and DROP
sql Interview questions
DELETE
The DELETE command is used to remove rows from a table. A WHERE clause can be used to only remove some rows.
DELETE is a DML command. 
DELETE operations can be rolled back (undone)
Triggers will be fired.

DROP
The DROP command removes a table from the database
No DML triggers will be fired. 
The operation cannot be rolled back.

TRUNCATE
TRUNCATE removes all rows from a table
The operation cannot be rolled back
no triggers will be fired.
TRUCATE is faster and doesn't use as much undo space as a DELETE

How will you delete duplicating rows from a base table?
sql Interview questions
DELETE FROM EMPLOYEES WHERE ROWID NOT IN (SELECT MAX (ROWID) FROM EMPLOYEES GROUP BY SALARY);
With above you can delete duplicated rows in salary column of employees table.

Which datatype is used for storing graphics and images?
sql Interview questions
The LOB datatypes BLOB, CLOB, NCLOB, and BFILE enable you to store and manipulate large blocks of unstructured data (such as text, graphic images, video clips, and sound waveforms) in binary or character format. Oracle recommends that you always use LOB datatypes over LONG datatypes.

What are Different SQL Joins?
sql Interview questions
•    JOIN: Return rows when there is at least one match in both tables
•    LEFT JOIN: Return all rows from the left table, even if there are no matches in the right table
•    RIGHT JOIN: Return all rows from the right table, even if there are no matches in the left table
•    FULL JOIN: Return rows when there is a match in one of the tables

What is primary key and foreign key?
sql Interview questions
A primary key is a field or combination of fields that uniquely identify a record in a table, so that an individual record can be located without confusion.

A foreign key (sometimes called a referencing key) is a key used to link two tables together. Normally you will take the primary key field from one table and insert it into the other table where it becomes a foreign key (but it still remains a primary key in the original table).

Which is faster - IN or EXISTS?
sql Interview questions
EXISTS is faster than IN because EXISTS returns a Boolean value whereas IN returns a value.

Find out nth highest salary from Employees table?
sql Interview questions
SELECT MIN(SALARY) FROM (select DISTINCT SALARY  from EMPLOYEES order by SALARY  ASC) where ROWNUM<=1;

sql
What is LIKE Operator?
sql Interview questions
The LIKE operator is used to search for a specified pattern in a column. Its is used in WHERE clause;

What is the use of SQL AND & OR Operators?
sql Interview questions
The AND & OR operators are used to filter records based on more than one condition

What is the use of SELECT DISTINCT Statement?
sql Interview questions
To list only the different (distinct) values in a table select distinct statement is used.

What are DML and DDL?
sql Interview questions
DML is part of SQL which permits, to access and update database 
The query and update commands form the DML part of SQL:
•    SELECT - extracts data from a database
•    UPDATE - updates data in a database
•    DELETE - deletes data from a database
•    INSERT INTO - inserts new data into a database


The DDL part of SQL permits database tables to be created or deleted. It also defines indexes (keys), specify links between tables, and impose constraints between tables. The most important DDL statements in SQL are:
•    CREATE DATABASE - creates a new database
•    ALTER DATABASE - modifies a database
•    CREATE TABLE - creates a new table
•    ALTER TABLE - modifies a table
•    DROP TABLE - deletes a table
•    CREATE INDEX - creates an index.
•    DROP INDEX - deletes an index

Is sql case sensitive?
No

